[Music]
you arrive at the airport anticipating a
pleasant flight
after all you've paid more for that
extra leg room or a comfy window seat
or a business class that's when you find
out you've been
downgraded how come and if you can get
downgraded
is the opposite possible too then what
other secrets do
airlines hide
experts claim downgrades do happen and
rather frequently at that
the reasons vary the airplane can get
unexpectedly swapped for a smaller one
because of some technical issues or a
passenger can miss their connection
because of a flight delay
the next flight can be a different
airplane model or the seats in the
needed class
might be already booked the flight can
be overbooked
in this case if you arrive at the
check-in later than other passengers
the place you've booked can already be
given away
there have also been cases where people
bought first-class tickets
only to find out later there was no
first class on the plane whatsoever
oops
[Applause]
but then how about getting a better seat
your chances to have an
upgrade are higher if you travel at
quiet times for example
during bank holidays when business
travelers don't fly that often
join an airline's loyalty program and
try to book your flights only with this
carrier
come early for your flight if there are
spare seats in a higher class
you may get them for free first come
first serve
but the rules of downgrading and
upgrading aren't the only secrets
airlines flight attendants and airport
staff
don't want you to know
if your flight is canceled get in line
at the airline's ticket counter as soon
as possible
but while you're waiting call their
customer service
it's usually faster than talking to a
gate agent and in your case
seconds matter
airport lounges can be available for
regular travelers
in most of them you can pay a certain
amount of money and rest in a quiet
place with free
food and drinks
you can't stay trapped on a plane
without going anywhere
for more than three hours any longer
than that
and you can ask for compensation
[Music]
crew members have a special name for
passengers who turn up late and without
an assigned seat
it's spinners such passengers keep
flapping around
trying to find an unoccupied place or
figure out which overhead bin has a bit
of space for their bag
if you need to find a bathroom the
cheapest cafe
or your gate at the airport don't ask
pilots
they're usually just as clueless as you
are unless it's their base airport
[Applause]
planes must be at least 85 percent full
to bring profit
that's why many flights are overbooked
in case some passengers don't show or
miss their connection
if you get bumped unwillingly and are
delayed for two or more hours
you're entitled to compensation if you
have a choice
pick cash or a check vouchers tend to
have expiration and blackout dates
[Music]
flight attendants dislike delays as much
as you do
they're only paid for flight hours not
for the time spent on the ground
air companies offer cabin crews a small
expense allowance for every hour they
spend at the airport
but that's pretty much it
buying group tickets is likely to cost
you more than getting several single
ones
let's say you need five tickets but
there are only three discounted ones
left
instead of snatching three cheaper ones
and buying two at full price
you'd have to pay for five regular price
tickets
for domestic flights the cheapest days
to fly are
tuesdays wednesdays and saturdays if
it's an international flight
opt for weekdays plus wait for tuesday
wednesday
or thursday to buy tickets at the lowest
prize
despite what you might have seen in
action movies an ordinary person will
never manage to land a commercial
airplane
contrary to popular belief there's no
cargo compartment underneath the plane
no extra layers filled with suitcases
bags and pet carriers
even if there are some accessible
alcoves under the cockpit or cabin
they're too tiny for a person to move
without having to crouch
airplanes only get cleaned once a month
or every six weeks
but when this time comes an aircraft is
usually taken to the hangar
and the whole cleaning process lasts for
more than eight hours
each of those dings you hear during the
flight has its own meaning
for example a high low sound informs
flight attendants their colleagues need
them in another part of the cabin
three loadings mean serious turbulence
ahead
duty-free stores aren't always cheaper
than retail ones
what's more goods are sometimes
delivered to duty-free from
regular city stores
so do not alarm passengers pilots and
cabin crew
often replace the word turbulence with a
more neutral air pocket
flight attendants assess you when you're
boarding the plane
if you look strong enough and are
wearing comfortable clothes
they'll remember it to ask you for help
in case of an emergency
don't worry if you notice airplane wings
flex they're designed to be flexible
if they were stiff they would break as
soon as the airplane came across the
slightest turbulence
you may have an opportunity to check
your carry-on bag at the gate
and totally for free listen for messages
offering complimentary checked bags
it happens when the airline expects a
full flight and there's a shortage of
overhead bin space
be careful with what you buy in
duty-free if you have a connecting
flight
some airports won't allow you to carry
liquids over 3.4 ounces through your
layover destination
even if they're from a duty-free store
and in a sealed bag
[Music]
you can ask for an extra portion if you
still feel hungry after the meal on the
plane
if you're nice and polite and the food
is available you'll get it
most airlines get rid of the leftovers
after the flight anyway
planes never fly in straight lines all
routes have to pass
not far from airports so that pilots
have enough time to reach one if there's
a forced landing
weather conditions can also affect the
trajectory
airport taxis can charge you twice the
actual price of the ride
it's always better to use an online taxi
app or rent a car
if you don't have these options make
sure to find out the rate in advance
airplane headphones are reusable even
though the bag you get is sealed
foam covers get changed and earphones
are handed out to the next plane load of
passengers
what surprises flight attendants most is
passengers getting off the plane
and leaving some or all of their stuff
behind
[Music]
you'll feel safer and happier in an
airplane with a wider entrance and
brighter lighting
you might even believe your food tastes
better and your seat is wider
[Music]
when a security agent is having a
pleasant conversation with you
they might be checking your behavior
right at that moment
they know how to make sure you aren't
planning anything suspicious
when pilots fly as passengers they
ignore turbulence but pay attention to
unusual smells
they know which scents can indicate
problems with the engine
or fuel storage systems
[Music]
you can find free water at most airports
just remember to bring along an empty
plastic bottle
the chances are you'll see either a
water refill station
or at least a water fountain
the dirtiest places on any plane are the
seat belts
headrests tray tables and seat pockets
if your captain announces they're
finishing some paperwork it means
they're busy revising the flight
itinerary or waiting for the ground
staff to prepare the flight log book
that's a journal that contains the
official record of a journey
you'll be the first to grab your
suitcase at the baggage carousel
if you check it later than other
passengers bags that are loaded the last
are typically the first to get to the
baggage claim area
some planes especially those flying long
distances
have secret bedrooms for crew members
who need to catch some
shut eye these bedrooms called crew rest
compartments
are located either at the back of the
plane or behind the cockpit
such a compartment can have up to 10
beds where flight attendants can have
rest